Now that we created the actual VPC,
let's next add some firewall rules in the form of network ACL rules to this VPC.
So first off, I'm going to store all of our private subnets in a variable.
I can actually do this by accessing our VPC construct and
accessing an attribute called private_subnets.
This will actually store a list of all of our private
subnets in the private_subnets variable.
So again, notice I am referring to the self.vpc attribute of this class.
Next, I'm going to do the same thing for isolated subnets,
so I'm just going to replace the word private with isolated.
So we now have two variables here that represent a list of
private subnets and isolated subnets in our VPC.
What we can actually do with this list is we can loop
through this list and add rules to this list.
For example, in an isolated subnet,
we normally only allow traffic from the private
subnet and only through the DB port.
That's the only traffic we allow inbound.
So what I'm going to do is I'm first going to create an isolated_nacl.
This is going to be an empty network ACL.
So I'm just going to call the NetworkAcl class and give this network ACL a name,
just DBNacl.
There are no rules yet created by default; however,
this NetworkAcl construct will take in a few arguments as well.
So you need to specify the VPC you want this NetworkAcl to be created in,
as well as a subnet_selection,
which represents the subnets you want this network ACL to be attached to.
So for the VPC, I'm going to say self.vpc.
Next for subnet_selection,
we actually need to pass a SubnetSelection object because that is what
this NetworkAcl class expects in its constructor.
So, to do this,
we just create a SubnetSelection object and specify that
we're passing the list of isolated_subnets.
This will return a SubnetSelection containing our isolated_subnets.
So now we're going to loop through all of our private_subnets,
and we're going to allow traffic from the private_subnets into
the protected subnets on the database port.
Notice, I'm using the Python enumerate function, and I'm starting from 1.
This is to make labeling each of the network ACL rules easier.
Now again, for every private_subnet,
we're going to add an entry to the isolated_nacl.
I'm going to name this entry DbNACLIngress,
multiply the id from the enumeration by 100,
and add it to the name.
I next need to specify the rule number or the sequence number for this rule.
In this case, the rule number will be, again, the id number times 100.
Now, as usual, it's up to you how you number your NACL rules.
It is just a personal preference for me that I number them in hundreds.
Next, I need to specify the CIDR range for this rule.
So I need to specify what type of traffic I am whitelisting.
To do that, I actually need to pass an AclCider object.
Now this AclCider object can come from an existing IPv4 mask.
So we can actually retrieve the IPv4 address from our private_subnet.
However, how do we actually retrieve the IPv4 address?
Let's make a short stop at the CDK documentation and check how can we
retrieve the IPv4 address from a private subnet?
So here we are at the CDK documentation for the PrivateSubnet class.
By default, the documentation is actually written in TypeScript,
but the functions are still documented the same way.
So if we go to the Properties section,
notice that the PrivateSubnet class does not actually have an IPv4 property.
We actually cannot retrieve the private subnet IPv4 address from this class.
So what do we do now?
Do we just give up?
Well, if we actually look at another class called the CfnSubnet class,
if we scroll down to Properties,
there is a property for the cidrBlock of this particular subnet.
What exactly is the CfnSubnet class?
The CfnSubnet class is actually the lower‑level CFN construct.
Remember that the CDK is an abstraction on top of CloudFormation.
So this CFN class gives you access to the underlying
CloudFormation resource that this construct represents.
So to retrieve the lower‑level cidrBlock property,
we need to look at the CfnSubnet class.
Every construct has a CfnSubnet class.
To get the CfnSubnet class for a particular construct,
we just need to look at subnet.node.default_child.
This default child represents the CFN resource created by this construct.
And from this default child,
we can retrieve the CIDR block of this private subnet.
Now just take note of the documentation differences.
For Python, we mainly use snake case,
which is why it's cidr_block instead of the camel
case cidr with capital B Block.
Now let's complete our network ACL entry with the TCP port we are
allowing into our firewall. So this TCP port will be the DB port that we
actually specified in this class's constructor.
So remember, the db_port default 5432 value that we specified earlier.
Lastly, we need to specify the direction of this traffic,
and we're going to allow this traffic inbound.
We're allowing this DB port inbound on our network ACL.
That is specified in this INGRESS construct.
Now that we've specified our ingress rules,
we also need to specify our egress rules or our outbound rules.
So to do this, I'm just going to copy this add_entry function,
and I'm going to change the label to egress,
change the direction to egress as well,
and I'm also going to change the tcp_port_range to the FM URL port range.
This FM URL port range is just the possible ports our DB can
actually respond on based on RFC 6056.
So this is a networking‑specific port that's used for response traffic.
Since this is not a networking class, I won't spend too much time on this.
Think of it as the port you need to allow outbound for your DB to respond properly.